The next activity we're going
to go through is kind of a quiz.
You can think of it like a game and
it's all about letting your brain operate
as if it is the TypeScript compiler,
right?
So we're gonna try to spot whether these
small code examples will compile, and
if they won't,
what kind of error we can expect.
So take a look at this one, for
example, and we say that, let Age = 38.
So, age we can expect
to be of type number.
And then we're gonna say Age = Number.NAN,
which of course if you know JavaScript,
that of course means it's a number.
So, yes, this will compile.
Hopefully this makes sense to everybody.
All right, example 2, dealing with tuples.
So we have a vector3,
like xyz component, maybe.
So we've got number, number,
number, vector.push(6).
Let's have show hands in the room,
thumbs up or thumbs down,
thumbs up means compile.
So optimistic you folks.
I see a thumbs up here and
that is the correct answer.
TypeScript will let us push
into a tuple like this.
And the reason is that this
is a subtype of an array.
So all the things that are available on
an array are still going to work here.
You can see here, it's sort of array.push,
that's what we get.
So tuples will kind of help us in
terms of accessing things in terms
of assignment, right?
But, unfortunately, we can still push and
pop and do these things that really,
you wouldn't wanna do with tuples.
Don't worry if you get these wrong,
the point is,
this is one more step towards
starting to get it right.
All right, how about this?
We have a Color type with red,
green, and blue properties.
And then we have an interface called
Color that introduces an alpha property.
Thumbs up or thumbs down, will it compile?
A mix of answers, the answer is, no.
So interfaces are open.
If we were to take this code example and
open it up, and
if I were to just change this to interface
Color, everything would be copacetic.
But once a type alias is defined,
you can't have another type
alias of the same name.
They don't sort of smush together the way
they would in the interface case.
So c dot and you can see we get our red,
green, blue and alpha.
This is sort of the merging of interfaces.
They kind of, this is declaration merging.
Doesn't work when you
combine a type alias,
or if a type alias is involved at all,
you'd have to have a different thing.
All right, example 4, we have class
with a class field called name,
which is a string and friends,
which is array of Persons.
And in the constructor we say,
this.name = name.
Will this compile?
No, why won't it compile?
>> Because the constructor doesn't include
everything that TypeScript is expecting.
>> There you go, perfectly said,
the constructor does not include,
does not initialize all
of the class fields here.
So it has no initializer and it is not
definitely assigned in the constructor.
Definitely assigned,
meaning it has to be able to see
something in a synchronous code path.
Very good, Example 5,
if you have an abstract
class called Person with
an abstract class field name and
we try to create a concrete class and
the type of name is a string or
a string array, will this compile?
Just kind of comes down to,
are we allowed to change this type or not?
And if so,
is the way we're changing it allowed?
So first instinct,
thumbs up or thumbs down?
All right, see mostly thumbs down,
the answer is, thumbs down,
it will not compile.
So the name field has to be compatible.
In particular, we could have picked
something that is assignable to a string.
So if we instead, if we had a more
specific type, like what if we did this?
If we could do this with our new
knowledge of, Tag template types.
We could say, if I could figure
out how to use my keyboard here.
We could say,
I'll take not just any string but
any string that begins
specifically with Mike.
This will work when we subclass
something like this or when we, I mean,
we have subclass, right,
this is an abstract class,
we're free to use a more specific type
tip, but not a more general type.
So you can impose additional constraints,
you can't relax constraints,
cuz ultimately we have to be able to
regard these as Persons, all right?
>> Would you be willing to just very
briefly talk about what abstract
means here?
>> Absolutely happy to talk
about what abstract means.
So an abstract class, the way I think of
it, it's sort of falls halfway between
a concrete class which would be just
a conventional class and an interface.
So an interface has no implementation,
only types.
A class is obligated to
implement everything.
You say I have a method and you not
only have the type information there but
you have the logic of the method itself.
An abstract class lets us
have a mix of the two.
So in this case,
I could have a function here like greet.
Hello, this.name, right?
I can have some pieces of this that
are concrete, that have logic.
But in this case, I could say, look,
it's your job to bring me this field.
I'm saying that something has to exist.
Anyone who extends me has
to fill in this blank.
And I'm not gonna fill it in but
I'm gonna tell you what I need.
Makes less sense here but look at this,
Abstract formatName.
So I can have a function here,
Like that and
now it's almost like, okay,
now student has to go ahead and
implement formatName in some way, right?
So sort of we get to have half and half.
The reason that you don't see this that
often is because you could also use
an interface to state
this type of information.
But sometimes you kinda want
an interface and a base class, and
this would serve that purpose.
Especially if you want a base class
that cannot be directly instantiated,
that's what this gets you, right?
We could have created
a situation where we had
something like this,
Person and then we have like,
You bring this formatName up
into the interface like that,
And maybe like this, And
string and
here we could have had our base class.
Now here, this is where it gets tricky,
in order to have an implementation here
that kind of assumes that this Exists,
you'd have to say all right
person implements I person.
But now we're obligated to sort
of fill in all of these blanks in
some way on the space class cuz we
have to make person complete now.
So, there are use cases where this is
like strictly a better tool for the job.
So in this next example we have an
interface called color with red green and
blue numeric properties.
Then we have a function
called print color and
we're passing this object
literal into print color.
So will this compile or not?
I see, exclusively thumbs down as if
people have seen the answer before.
No, this will not compile.
So, the kind of problem
we're running into here
is access properties on object literals.
And here's, what's going what we're being
told by the compiler and why it matters.
So what we're being told
is specifically that
we're passing in something
that has this alpha.
At the end like a transparency channel.
And that's not assignable to a parameter
of type color and you might think.
Well, wait a minute it should be red,
color just
simply asks of us that we have a red green
and blue and we have more than that.
What's the problem?
Well, the problem is that, because
we're using an object literal here,
there is nothing else in
this code that would be
able to get a reference to the object
being passed as an argument here.
There's absolutely no, it's not like we're
holding it in a variable or something.
I can pop this out here so
we can talk about it.
So, let's see if we get the same error.
Like this.
And we're not going to, right?
So in this situation we're holding
on to this in a variable and
we're not getting the error.
So here's how I want you
to think about this.
Here's how I advise building
it into your mental model.
In this scenario on our screen,
I can get at this alpha channel.
So there is a point to it existing,
there's a point to it being defined.
We may use it somewhere else.
It is possible for
us to use it somewhere else.
If we go back to the problem as
originally stated there is no way for
me to access this alpha channel.
It is known if the types
are telling the truth and
if we use them as we should
it's kind of pointless, right?
There's no alpha here.
And there's no other way to access this
object that's passed into the function.
So it's just sort of
It's a vestigial thing.
It's access.
And that's why we get this error message.
And that's why this rule is here.
Because it's quite literally pointless for
us to have this is less proper free,
all right?
In this next example,
we have a type called color.
And then we have a color value
class that implements that type.
Will this compile or not?
thumbs up thumbs down.
So red, green and blue.
I see a couple sideways thumbs.
I can see a yes them.
Emma is that your name.
>> Yeah.
>> What do you think this will compile.
>> Because the constructor includes all of
the properties that the type is expecting.
>> It does, what if I got rid
of this public key word here?
Would that change the way
you think about this?
>> No.
>> Okay, so your answers right, but
there's there's a little
extra curveball here.
What we're seeing here
are called puram properties.
And the fact that we have
this public key word here.
It kind of automatically sets
up this class field for us.
So, this compiles and
if we had equals new color value,
something like this, and 000,
we could see that CV.red, green and blue.
These are here.
So, when we have public red and
public green, public blue,
it's kind of shorthand for this.
And we have a duplicate identifier because
we'll need to get rid of this now.
So when you have those access modifier
keywords that public in the constructor
signature, you're getting for
free these class fields setup and
this assignment happening
in your constructor.
It's a nice abbreviated way to do this.
So, It'll work just fine.
And you can see that, well, the tool tips
aren't telling us the whole story here.
But, this in the example you
can see it how this is working.
The fact that they're equivalent,
all right?
Moving on.
Example 8.
So we have a class and
we have an interface of the same name.
It looks a lot like our
type alias example, right?
Where we were kind of like trying
to piggyback on the same word.
Will this work the same way for class?
What will happen?
What's your gut reaction?
I see get some thumbs up and thumbs down.
So it turns out a class has
the interface of the instance
of the class, kind of riding on top of it.
So really this boils down to interface and
interface.
So, first off,
I missed this export keyword and
without that, everything is fine.
>> [LAUGH]
>> [LAUGH] This is my past self
throwing my future self curveballs.
So, it also would have been
fine if we did this, right?
So if you have these merge
declarations that are all sort of
piggybacking on the same word, person.
You either export them all or
you export none of them.
So this one didn't really have to
do with the collision on person
because that worked.
I will read the next one very carefully,
okay?
Example 9.
So we have a class with
a field called name.
And then a constructor.
And then, we have some API call
that's being made in the constructor.
And then, so we get an API response back,
convert it into JSON, and
then set up the name on the class.
Well the TypeScript compiler like this,
thumbs up or thumbs down.
I only see thumbs down in the room.
And you might one clue is I
have thrown a curveball here
I'd like given something
a sync in a constructor.
So it stands to reason that there's
a reason I'm doing that unless I'm just
being devious.
So this won't compile.
And it's because, it is not definitely
assigned in the constructor.
And this is not a great error message
because I would argue I can see
an assignment in the code that's
in my constructor method.
The problem is, that code will not be
invoked before we reach the end of
the constructor function, right?
It's this async thing API call comes back
and all the while like what if the API
call takes ten minutes to come back and
here I have this instance of person.
Send a name has not been set up on it yet,
so
this is why when we have a callback
like this often things that
happen inside that callback
don't really count towards
making sure class fields on
the class are initialized.
Now, you remember one of those
first questions we started talking
about where we had that
promise constructor.
We had the animal names and
we were talking about the order
they were logged out.
And we talked a little bit about
how when we create that promise,
the callback given to the promise
constructor is invoked synchronously.
Unfortunately, there's no way
to tell the compiler that, so
if you ever create new promises in
a class constructor like this, you may
have to use the definite assignment
operator, which is the bang equals sign.
Because, as far as it's concerned,
any callback has the potential to be
a sync, and therefore, we can't say,
yeah, name will have value by
the time instantiation is completed.
So we don't yet
have a tool a way to express that like,
this is a synchronous callback,
maybe one day.
All right, getting close to the end here.
So this one I won't ask for a show of
hands here I just wanted to kinda show
you something interesting here
it's very nuanced, but so
we have three enums, and if you're used
to using these you'll know that by
default if we don't have initializers
here you'll end up with numbers,
if we look at Sublime Text,
that's probably going to be a zero.
So there's a weird thing that I ran
into not while setting up this workshop
project, but in another app where
I learned something about innum.
So this will not compile,
and you may think okay,
I'm using string values
here that's a bit weird.
The thing that's weird here is,
where we run into the problem and
where we escaped from the problem.
So, here we're setting typescript.
The first thing in the innum
equal to this string Ts, and
then we get this error message.
Just it says,
each member must have an initializer.
And yet down here we get a zero cuz that's
kinda the default behavior of an enum,
and then vs code, and
apparently that's fine.
Now down, here we have things
happening before and after.
Our weird like stringing II knew
what we wanna call this thing.
But the fact that we kinda
go back to numbers here, and
we're explicit about it, that means
that JSN is gonna be number four,
I love bunkers,
I have no other insight to offer you here,
but it's kinda a weird
a weird little thing.
Keep an eye out for
it if you're ever doing this.
Another way to deal with this is
just rest on the numeric values.
To steer clear of this
entirely use constants like
immutable non assignable strings
if you need string values.
All right, what about this, we have
a function called handle click maybe we're
using this in like a React component.
And we're saying on click
equals handle click.
We get the events target, and
we cast it to an HTML input element.
Maybe this is safe because maybe we know
we're only using this
on HTML input elements.
That's the only way this
function will ever get invoked.
And then we say,
if the value is not blank,
set the value to the uppercase
version of the string.
So this might force an input to be
uppercased, will this compile or not?
This we're out of weird trick
question territory now.
So the answer here is it will not compile.
And the key to look at is it's
a freestanding function in which we
are making kinda an assumption about this,
for this type, all right?
So often when you have a DOM event
handler this will end up being
the target of the event
that was clicked or
where a keystroke happened or
something like that right.
Anyone here familiar with react and
have you used the class components of
react where you remember having to
bind those functions and pull them up?
That's exactly why because you want
the this in those react event hands.
Learn to be the instance of the component.
So you can set state, for example.
You don't want the default behavior.
But when you have
freestanding functions and
you need to rely on this,
I'll show you how we can fix this code.
This input And
now everything should be copacetic.
It's sort of the first,
it's a pseudo argument of sorts,
but you can say,
make sure that something is of that kind.
So if for example, we had HTML development
Well that work?
Maybe this won't type check
as well as I thought.
There's no.
What about this, can I do.
There we go.
For this types of each
signature are incompatible.
So here like I'm saying I have
a handle click that assumes
it's only designed to work with an input,
why?
Because I need this dot value and
that's part of HTML input element,
that's the context.
To the contents of the input ,so no it's
not gonna work with the diff because at
runtime this is gonna break or this will
break here actually this will be fine this
will be undefined and then to uppercase
is probably what's gonna blow up.
All right, last two questions.
All right, here we have, again,
a sub-classing situation.
We have a private field called name,
so I'm just gonna steer you into
the important thing is to look at his
name, subclass as a different type.
And then we also have super, all right,
which is calling the constructor
of the base class.
And then finally, Take a look at that.
So are there is any of this
gonna make things go wrong?
Thumbs up or thumbs down,
thumbs I see more
thumbs down thumbs up,
this will not compile.
So, first off age they have separate
declarations of this
private property age So,
this is interesting, right,
there's no objection to having different
private class fields like the JavaScript
hashtag private class fields,
those are always contained within a class,
right?
You could have a parent class, and
a sub class, they each have their own,
they're not related,
they're not even visible to each other.
So those are fine,
there's no collision there,
this will actually collide, private age
like the fact that they both exist,
is in and
of itself a little bit of a problem.
Because, this should really be protected,
protected as the keyword
that lets us share the property
between base class and subclass.
So here at runtime, this is gonna be the
same property, but you're sort of giving
two different things in an inheritance
chain, the ability to write to it.
So this is why you're sort of forbidden
from writing over these fields,
also the types of age are not comparable,
so
this piece is visible from
within this class itself, right?
So we have a nullable age here, and
then we're expecting it to be a number,
now, why didn't that give us trouble here?
It's because we're defaulting to a value
of zero in the event that it comes null or
undefined.
All right, last example,
so looking at this again,
we've got a name on a person,
we've got a function called make name.
Which takes either an array of strings,
or a string and
kind of concatenate them together or
just passes it straight through.
All right,
now we have a student which is a person,
we have this name is a string or
an array of strings,
we already determined that this and
this up here will not collide.
So the question is,
is this gonna be okay, and
is this gonna be okay,
thumbs up, thumbs down.
Thumbs up, thumbs up,
I don't see any thumbs down,
I believe this will compile, and we kind
of went through all of the reasons why,
so this type here lines up with this type,
so we're good there.
But this is a good example of like,
it's fine to break out a little function
here and to use it in the constructor Or
even the super call which generally
should be the first thing.
When you're inheriting, call super,
its fine to put that there and
this serves to normalize things so
that we can hold one type of
value in our subclass, but
the base class has sort of
a more constrained type